So in order for us to start using stout components inside of our ReACT application what we need to do
is first include the style components library inside of our application so we can just do that simply
doing yarn ad styled dash components
and once it installs we're going to talk about the naming structure as well as how we should structure
are folders and files.
Now that we're writing style components so let's start with a very basic component so that we can see
what we need to do get familiar with the syntax before we move on to more complex components.
And the first one I want to try is the home page component.
So what we need to replace is this div with the class name home page with it's own home page stout component.
So what we'll do is we'll make a new file called Home Page dot styles dot JSA X and we will import in
style from Star components and we can name this div home page container and we'll use the same case
of capitalizing because it is a component so we'll say home page container equals style dot div.
As you remember right.
Because we want to use a div where our call dot div to generate a new div and then we can literally
just copy over the styles on our home page class selector and we can put them inside and then let's
just export this out and now if we save and if we import in that component Home page book that's actually
imported from home page lifestyles that J us and lets say home page container.
We can now literally just replace this whole div with our home page container and then remove our style
sheet and now if we look we see that our app is the exact same.
In fact if we look inside and we look at our home page element we'll see that we have that unique string
which is specific to our home page container component that we now just make so it's very simple and
it's quite easy.
And just like that is working now let's tackle a component that's a little bit more complicated.
Let's tackle our header component
now.
Let's close that.
Now if we look I had a component we'll see that there is the containing div that we need to make a header
container right styled component for we need a logo container that will extend from link because we
do need to leverage the link component from RAC writer Dom still and then we need actually the lower
component and stay the same.
We'll need this options container and we'll also need this options link but we'll also need the potential
for our div with the class name option to also be a option link styling.
Right.
We need these styles to be shared between this link and this div.
Now how do we do this well to start let's make our new header dot styles dot J.S. X while and then let's
import in styled from styled components right.
So let's tackle this one at a time we also want to can import in our link from RAC writer Dom because
I'll show you how we can actually styled this link element using a stock component it's actually also
very easy but the first thing that we want to do is just make the header container right.
We just want to replace this header so we all say const header container equals styled
and then let's just open up our header styles as well and copy this over
so that's all the stuff that we need for our header container and then we also want our logo container
so let's do our lower container as well.
So we've got to export all these as well because we're going to import them later.
We'll say low container which we know is now a link.
So how do we use a link element.
Well instead of calling dot and then the div we can do styled and then call it like a function and pass
it the component that we wanted to wrap.
And now we just continue with our string interpolation as we've been doing before.
And now what we'll get is that is a style link component and it's just that easy.
Just like that we've now extended style components into components which is what's super powerful about
Star components and how easy it is to write.
So for this one we just need our logo container code which is just this see us that's here and now our
logo container is dot.
Now the next thing we need is are options container which is this div right.
So what we'll do here is we will say export concept options container which is equal to a style div
and then let's just copy over options container code and we can just take this whole code right let's
just take this one right here
and then we have this option code.
This option styling which is what gets applied to our option link and class name well because we want
we don't want to duplicate our style.
We want to write this more than once right.
We want to be able to keep it in one place because our div and our link are going to share the classes
or share the style sorry.
Instead of using a class name we actually are able to leverage another thing that we get from store
components called CSF and what this does it allows us to write a block of CSX that we can pass in and
render as CSX inside of any of our stock components.
And I'll show you how that looks.
So we can say const option container styles and we just say CSX.
Right.
Because of that library.
Well we just pulled in we apply these strings and now we just paste in the code that we want more than
once.
Which is this padding and cursor code and now if we wanted to replace these options we have two types
of options.
We have a little option link and an option div.
Right.
So we can literally say in our headers the export const option link right.
And this will be a styled link and what we'll put in is just we'll use our string interpolation to render
in this new options container styles code block of CSX that we wrote and we just do the same thing for
our option diff and it's equal to a style div.
And again we just interpolate in our option container style if you had a hard time following all we
did was just instead of defining an h him a link or HDMI element for each of our elements we did the
respective styled element and then if we wanted to use a custom component like say the length that we
got from RAC rather Dom we can just call it into styled by passing it in and calling style like a function.
Now if we want to share styles that might be duplicated all we have to do is import in this specific
CSX keyword.
And this allows us to now write CSX blocks that we can just include into our styles and we will get
that CSX almost like a shared function so now that we have that let's import this all in and replace
our respective code with it.
So let's import in our head our container our logo container our options container our options
give our option link
and now we just replace the respective components
so we'll just got to make sure to also get all the closing tags logo container during this class name
property anymore.
But remember to keep the two because it's still a link.
So we need that functionality.
We need our options container
and then we need to replace our link with option link
to replace this class name.
In fact let's just delete this class name here as well.
And then here instead of this div we need our option div also removing our class name.
Don't accidentally remove the on click.
And this final link will also be an option.
Link
now if we save I must have.
Oh we have an unexpected div here.
So this must be our options container
got that one if we save we'll see our header is the exact same.
So everything is working.
That is how you pretty much style stock components so it's very simple and it's a lot of getting used
to just the idea of converting all of your actual HDMI elements into their own style component but in
a way now it makes a little bit more sense compared to this because before in order for us to see our
options.
Right.
Which was right.
That div we had to nest inside of our header to see what the options was but now instead it's easier
because we are now able to just look at the options container.
Oh this is an element right.
We can just look at the styles related to this options container.
We don't need to look at any other rules.
Nothing in other rules.
Right.
We pretty much are now 100 percent sure that the code related to our options container is just in its
own component.
So this is really powerful and it's a great amount of leverage that we get as javascript developers
and we'll continue converting some components over and we'll see more of where it's so useful in some
of the perhaps more challenging components that we've had so I'm going to end this video because it's
getting a little long but in the next video we'll continue converting our components over.